# Energy-Eficient Algorithms

*By Erik D. Domaine, Jayson Lynch, Geronimo J. Mirano, Nirvan Tyagi*

To date, Energy Efficient Algorithms has been one of the most fascinating Computer Science papers I have read throughout my academic career. In the paper, Erik D. Domaine, Jayson Lynch, Geronimo J. Mirano, and Nirvan Tyagi analyze the energy complexity of various algorithms in the context of Landauer’s Principle, which states that “discarding one bit of information requires kT ln 2 energy, where k is Boltzmann’s constant and T is ambient temperature” (Domaine et al. 1). Thus, the writers have stressed the importance of developing energy-efficient algorithms, and propose an entire new field that focuses on reversible algorithm design to combat this problem before it is too late. Throughout the paper, they conclude that these reversible algorithms do, in fact, save a lot of energy, which leads to environmental sustainability, saved money, longer battery lives, and even faster CPUs.

This paper does pose many opportunities for further research in the field. It even attempts to create its own new, innovative field, so the possibilities for this are endless. I believe that, as computation continues to become much more complex, it is imperative that we continue to study the energy consumption of algorithms. We are still early, so we may be able to solve these problems before they begin to hinder our ability to solve multifaceted, complex problems using computers due to their high energy consumption rates. It would also be very beneficial to attempt to minimize the space used by reversible algorithms, as they seem to take significantly more space overhead than regular algorithms.
