# From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery in Databases
***By Usama Fayyad, Gregory Piatetsky-Shapiro, and Padhraic Smyth***

Written in 1996 by Usama Fayyad, Gregory Piatetsky-Shapiro, and Padhraic Smyth, "From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery in Databases" provides further insight into the world of data science. The main purpose of this academic article is to clarify the relationship between data mining and the concept of knowledge discovery, providing a detailed description of the Knowledge Discovery in Databases (KDD) process along the way. The result is a very thorough overview of KDD, its role, and potential issues.

In the article, they begin by introducing the KDD process, explaining the need for it. Database sizes have been massively increasing in size over the years, creating the need for more streamlined and comprehensive ways to handle such data. Further, they dive deep into the KDD process itself, and proceed to give a survey of its many applications, spanning various industries. Finally, they provide some possible issues when using the KDD process, and give an overview on how new artificial intelligence methods can play a vital role in the growth of KDD.

However, the entire paper seems to hint at one important main idea: that while data mining is an important field in itself, it represents just one part inside the all-encompassing process of KDD. Making such a distinction is important, as it clarifies many apparent overlaps between both approaches. They then use this clarification to make an essential point regarding both data mining and KDD: that simply using data mining methods blindly can be a "dangerous activity, easily leading to the discovery of meaningless and invalid patterns," thus establishing the importance of KDD as a governing force behind data mining. 

Finally, the implications for both industry and academia in this paper are many. They clearly state that they hope their work provides a crucial step in order to hopefully one day arrive at a "common framework" that will become a "unifying vision of the common overall goals and methods used in KDD." In other words, they are aiming high towards a more streamlined process of discovering knowledge from data, something that we seem to be significantly improving each decade. They have been very successful in their approach, inspiring many future professionals in the industry.
