# Implications of Historical Trends in the Electrical Efficiency of Computing

*By Jonathan G. Koomey, Stephen Berard, Marla Sanchez, and Henry Wong*

Implications of Historical Trends in the Electrical Efficiency of Computing was written by Jonathan G. Koomey, Stephen Berard, Marla Sanchez, and Henry Wong, and it sets out to analyze the trends in electrical efficiency throughout the history of computing, particularly in terms of microprocessors. They begin their paper with a short discussion on Moore’s Law, which states that “the complexity [of integrated circuits] for minimum component costs has increased at a rate of roughly a factor of two per year.” Further, they bring up the popular idea that “computing performance doubles every 18 months.” With this, they set out to analyze the historical trends. With their research, they found that indeed computer performance shows to have doubled every 1.5 years since 1975. Thus, they use this data to talk about the future, particularly in mobile computing. This substantial improvement in performance over the years has paved the way for processors to use less power from batteries, leading to the era of personal and mobile computing.

As simple as they may be, however, this analysis does point to a very exciting future. If trends continue, computational possibilities in the future seem to be endless. I am very optimistic regarding the future of computing, and I cannot wait to see where new technologies lead us. It is up to us as computer scientists to continue developing these technologies. If new technologies can help people live better lives, all of this is more than worth it.
