# Natural Algorithms for Flow Problems

*By Damian Straszak and Nisheeth K. Vishnoi*

*Natural Algorithms for Flow Problems*, a paper developed by Damian Straszak and Nisheeth K. Vishnoi dives into the interesting observation that Physarum polycephalum, a slime mold, can actually compute the shortest path in a maze to reach its food. With this, it creates the startling possibility that, through evolution, nature somehow developed the ability to efficiently solve algorithms. To see if this was the case, they took these algorithms and analyzed their efficiency. In conclusion, their results indicate that these algorithms are, in fact, efficient, when their discrete dynamics are analyzed. With these results they developed two theorems that are outlined in the paper. Finally they went ahead and provided proofs for both of these theorems, paired with some important descriptions for complex definitions and lemmas. 

I am very interested to see how these results can be applied in the future. The fact that these single-celled organisms make use of efficient and complex algorithms means that, as stated in the paper, nature beat us by about a billion years. This then strongly implies that there could be other organisms out there with similar traits and abilities. Further research into this can prove to be very eye-opening and beneficial for the development of better, more efficient algorithms in the field. I find this all to be extremely fascinating, and I cannot wait to see if more wonderful results come from this research.
